---
layout: post
title:  "Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)"
date:   2019-05-17 2019-05-17T13:20:00Z
categories: security
---

#### What is it? 

A page/web app executes a *cross origin http request* when it requests a resource 
with a different origin than its own. CORS is using http headers to tell a browser 
to let a page or web app running at one origin
have permission to access resources from a server at a different origin.

#### Why do we need it?

CORS is a way for browsers to bypass the "same-origin policy" (scripts in a page can access data on another resource,
but only if both page/resource are from the same origin). Without the same-origin policy, the following could occur:
A user visits  a banking site, doesn't log out. Bank session cookie remains active in the browser. User visits a malicious 
site. Script on malicious page can do anything a user can do on the banking site.

The same-origin policy is often too restrictive. Servers may want to allow some other sites to access their data, 
but not all sites.

#### How is it implemented?

* Client side: Request headers: Origin, Access-Control-Request-Method, Access-Control-Request-Headers
* Server side: Server must be configured to allow CORS. Response headers: 
Access-Control-Allow-Origin, 
Access-Control-Allow-Methods, 
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials 
and others...

Browser will preflight the request if necessary (OPTIONS request). "Simple" requests (e.g., GET, 
with only certain headers and content-types) don't require preflight.

#### Other notes:

Browsers are the enforcers of the same-origin policy and CORS. It's designed to limit
a *script's* ability to access cross-domain data. 
Not applicable to server-to-server or api-to-api communication.


#### References:

* [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)
* [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Same-origin_policy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Same-origin_policy)